I received the email from someone who is
ostensibly if not actually the person
who turned vegan gains into the cops
and who made Richards life miserable for
a couple of years there so I received
this email a couple of years ago and
everything about this email I'm gonna
read it to you is believable does that
mean that it's true no as they said
originally ostensibly this is an account
from the perspective of the person who
made the decision to report Richard to
the Toronto Police Department that led
to a series of investigations and
charges that led to Richard having to
attend several court dates the nature of
the email I'm gonna read you I would say
is believable enough and boring enough
that you could ask yourself well if this
were a hoax what would be different from
an actual account the events call me
gullible I do regard this email as
credible and if I'm wrong you guys have
been duly warned and informed I don't
have a lot of other content to provide
in this video I already have waxed
philosophical about the situation with
vegan gains deleting a CG channel I've
done kind of the whole range from
slightly philosophical to concise into
the point and then we did a series of
videos that were satire it is peculiar
for me to reflect on the extent to which
vegan gains and I in the past had some
kind of friendship that we were calling
some extent Melissa my girlfriend is
here off camera I remember really
talking about and you know I was talking
to him as a friend whether or not he
felt the friendship was mutual I
remember really talking him as a friend
when I was first seducing Melissa
whatever you want to say we were first
falling in love talking to him about
what was going on in that relationship I
remember then several months later with
Melissa we were looking for gifts to buy
Richard and his wife so that when we
came back to Canada we'd have a gift of
mine and I should consider when I first
saw this this very shirt this is a
it's a whatever you say it so I wear
this to the gym and it says me sarcastic
never and I when I first saw it I
thought oh wow that would be funny we
get matching shirts for Richard and his
wife you know and you know we ended up
buying them for ourselves but I remember
believe us at the time approximately I
was oh do you think we should also buy a
couple of these to give to Richard so we
have gift for him and you know we were
living in China
Richard is a little bit of it as an O
and O's just say you know I mean
obviously Richard has way more muscle
mass than me this I thought I thought I
could buy him the same size and he'd pop
out of it more you know I thought it
could sure for him that way too and
maybe the sentiment would suit him you
know um you know Richard's a little bit
of a Japanophile he's a little bit into
Japanese culture Japanese pop culture at
least and I remember you know thinking
about buying him a gift in China is
you're trying to get him something that
would appeal them so you know on some
level you know we were friends and
colleagues and you know in the past I've
appreciated the support he's shown me
and if you ask the question why didn't I
read this letter on the internet earlier
look my criticism of Richard has been
constant and continuous but yes it felt
a little bit different when I could
share my comments and criticisms and my
advice with him directly
then get a reply from him directly which
was the case in the past so I've reached
out to him and friends with a whole
range of very troubled people through
YouTube so to give you guys a know an
instructive contrast there was a time
when little cheetah little cheetah used
to known as vegan cheetah little cheetah
had a big contribution a big controversy
for using the n-word on the internet and
at that time he was not openly racist at
that time he just used it as an
exclamation like you know the famous
clip was of him he was looking at a
photograph of a beautiful woman and he
just shouted at the n-word about how
attractive she was it wasn't until he
was just using this oh no it's
inappropriate and so on and a lot of
people were freaking out and I talked to
him but it directly and I remember he
just said to me this is not that much he
said look he's somebody with no
education
he's been in and out of jail his whole
life he's a long criminal record
starting from high school I think
criminal record and he said look that
for him
using the n-word that way not as an
insult but just as know somebody that's
something he got so used to doing during
his years in jail that you know like he
wasn't claiming it was right or good but
that was so again when you have that
kind of contact with somebody it's very
different I mean doesn't even mean they
have a good reason but you have you hear
their reasons you hear their perspective
so you know um I didn't have a lot of
hope that Richard would would get better
I mean I haven't feel better I had no
hope
Richard would improve maybe I mean I was
gonna say that's another reason not to
bother criticizing him when you really
just feel there's no chance this person
is going to improve in any way then
what's the point
and you know I've never been here on
YouTube as a Fame [ __ ] I'm really not
interested in attention for the sake of
attention some of you won't believe me
but if you look back over the history of
this channel or those of you know me
online you know ultimately the main
thing I felt for Richard was was pity
and you know then after a certain point
in terms of people have asked me
sincerely enough why did you guys stop
being friends and I think the truth is
Richard really can't stand talking to
anyone who challenges his opinion of
himself and you know he really thinks
he's a genius he really thinks he's
someone with extraordinarily high
intelligence the same way that back when
he was an ice hockey player he thought
he had superhuman strength you guys may
have heard him describing that you don't
want his own channel you know and he
blames everyone else for his failures
and shortcomings except himself he
doesn't take responsibility for anything
he is not interested in growing up he's
not interested in proving he's not even
interested in proving as a filmmaker so
yeah I mean I can't say that the
criticism of him was ever lacking on
this channel I remember very clearly
putting up a criticism that had
clips of that video that video he can't
remember you just can't remember what's
in it that that YouTube flagged him for
well I remember you know that video that
has a title just like a whole bunch of
stuff I believe that's the video I put
up clips of where I was directly warning
him I was directly speaking to Richard
in the audience and saying look this is
you he was unloading bags and boxes of
weapons on camera and making unsavory
remarks while he did it you know what
are you trying to do you want do you
want to be do you want to be a leader in
the vegan movement do you want to be a
comedian do you want to be a filmmaker
do you want to be a bodybuilding coach
you know I I don't care you can be
anything you can go of course one of the
first conversation I had with him was
you can go back to school and get a
degree in nutrition or something
nutritional science you could go back
and get these credentials in Canada it's
pretty straightforward and it's pretty
affordable it's much easier than the
United States America or some other
countries and he didn't want any of that
she wanted to do whatever he wanted to
do whenever he wanted to do it and he
did not want to listen to anyone else's
opinion anyone who would a crap contrast
event about anything and you guys
already know the reason the reason he
said to me while he cut off all
friendship in contact with me was
because of what I said against racism
and you know Richards Canadian Richard
comes from Toronto Canada he grew up in
the shadow of genocide the same history
of the British Empire a genocide that I
grew up in I have a lot of videos on
this channel talking about Cree a jib
way mohawk indigenous languages the
importance of that in understanding
current politics of Canada mr. Gannon
I don't know to what extent it's that
element of racism in Antibes racism I
don't know to what extent it's just his
personal connection to certain far
right-wing figures like Cory McCarthy
and Tara McCarthy I don't know
and I don't care and look you know the
threats of violence thing I remember
Melissa saying to me after vegan gains
started hating me well you know this is
wait this is almost two years ago I'm
not not quite whatever you're in half
course not but I can remember Alyssa
saying to me she was afraid to go to
Toronto she was a is vegan gains can
actually come after us like it's like is
he actually gonna try to beat us up or
stab us or hurt us or something so you
know that was real fear on her partner I
know Richard better than she knows
Richard so I have some feeling about
that but the other side of it is when I
first talked about Richard on this
channel I don't know how many years ago
years ago when I first talked about
Richard on YouTube I did assume that a
lot of his violent act was a joke like
when he talked about wanting to kill
children and babies when he made these
kinds of really I assume was real and
now I know it's not a joke
I have a daughter I have sent Richards
photographs you know again a year ago
whatever was you know not recently I've
sent him photographs of me with my
daughter me visiting me on vacation
visiting my daughter right the way I do
with friends I send friends photos of
you and my daughter and you know what he
writes back absolutely confirms that
know what what he's been saying about
himself is not a joke it's literally
true
he has behaviors and beliefs and violent
attitudes towards children towards
people that you know that could get you
put into a lunatic asylum and that could
certainly get you investigated by the
Toronto Police Department which is
exactly what happened segue I received
the following letter hi eyes'll my name
is Mabel I'm using a fake name for her
my name is Mabel I am a longtime viewer
of vegan youtubers since 2012 and I have
been following the vegan lifestyle for
the better part of the last 12 years
I am from Arizona
fake location which is where I currently
live
I am 22 years old so this email was sent
a couple years ago in light of recent
events regarding you and your conflict
with during Ryder I thought it might be
beneficial to share my experience of the
vegan gains I was not personally
threatened or attacked by Richard but
after watching his videos for some time
observing his violent tendencies rage
threats of physical harm specific people
and to people in general he is talking
about murder he's showing off real
weapons knives guns etc in his videos
and so on
I felt concerned enough that I decided
to do something I wasn't sure if there
was anything I could do being an
American citizen living in America but I
felt I at least had to try earlier this
year it was March or April 2016 I
believe I called the Toronto Police
Department I spoke to an officer for
about an hour about Richard his YouTube
channel the videos and statements he's
made that concerned me etc then I waited
obviously since it didn't directly
involve me I would have to check
Richards online accounts for any mention
of police interaction about a week after
I made the call
Richard commented in a video that his
room was such a mess because he had been
raided by the police there are a few
mentions of the police quote/unquote
harassing him in other videos following
this one he says that he will explain
why the cops came to his house but he
never ended up sharing publicly why it
happened as far as I know so to my
knowledge again this is strange too
actually I believe the first time
Richard mentioned on the Internet
how serious his problem the police was
actually was in his interview he did
with me so it's briefly in there it's on
his on my youtube channel but we did a
Skype conversation he doesn't talk much
he is not an easy person to do a live
conversation with that's the other sad
thing about Richard like I don't know he
has a history of concussion he has a
history of brain injury he has a history
of hallucination I don't know if it's
something like autism that's also his
problem it is very very hard if those of
you can remember I'm sure this video is
still up the interview he originally did
we
the amazing atheist on the drunken
peasants you know he did seem autistic
in my attempt to talk to him over Skype
it was very very hard to get the basic
kind of eye to eye reaction we take for
granted I don't know look I don't I do
not know to what extent his problems are
based on a medically real brain problem
linked to the hallucination and other
obvious symptoms he observes a medically
real problem like autism or just brain
damage from concussion and the last one
is something people very easily
underrate significance of in our society
and I'll never know but yeah I as I said
before
fundamentally I pity him so I continue
for reading this email I am certain that
the police coming to his house and
checking in on him on later occasions at
least once more is a direct result of
the call I made it scares me to think
that no one bothered to call the police
before even people he actually
threatened to kill mr. epsteen being one
of them who incidentally never called
the police or took legal action or so it
seems
so she says of herself that she was
raised by cop heeding super liberal
parents and she is not an authority
trusting person it has to be something I
deemed very serious in order for me to
even consider contacting the authorities
having studied psychology for a fair bit
so I see if she has a university degree
is what I saw in Richard something
similar to many of the young mass
shooters the last 20 years and I felt I
couldn't stay silent about it
I just couldn't risk it what if he was
serious in his threats
the term quote/unquote deranged
individual was one of the few things
listed on the Toronto Police
Department's website they posted a list
of the things they would like you to
report as a member of the public I felt
that was fitting anyway I just want to
share this with you show that it is
important to take legal action and take
action when something is not right or
unjust okay she has a few more words and
then wraps it up she gives me permission
to use this to make a video and ask that
don't use her real name some other
details like this um at the time I
received this message years ago it's not
that I took it any less seriously than I
do today
however the question in my mind was to
what extent when we see Richard on
camera are we seeing an actor in a
comedy playing a fictional character and
to what extent did we've seen the real
man like I said the the whole sketch the
comedy he did about babies but then you
have a real-life incident where he gets
into an altercation with someone at a
restaurant for it was a restaurant or a
coffee coffee shop in Kensington Market
in Toronto and there's this or the
reaction he has when I send him a
picture of me with my daughter etc it
becomes clear I think everyone who's
known the guy even if you've just known
him via Facebook and and what have you
I think it becomes clear to everyone
over time that it's not an act that it's
not a joke and my charitable assumption
that he was a fictional character in a
kind of long-running series of jokes of
his own devising is is not true at all
so yeah and I say that as someone who
engages in quite a lot of self parody
self criticism self ridicule my own life
all too often feels like a series of
running jokes of my own just icing and
certainly my YouTube channel does also
perhaps the most pathetic the new mole
to this story of all all the people who
write in telling me that what I'm doing
here on YouTube is motivated by jealousy
take a look at the life Richard lives
under this heading of doing whatever it
is he wants to do whenever he wants to
do it there is nothing there for me to
feel jealous of nothing at all